(GH-2079) Update Bolt commands docs (#2249)
puppetlabs/bolt: documentation/running_bolt_commands.md

For a full list of available Bolt commands, see the [Bolt command
reference](bolt_command_reference.md).

## Run a command

Bolt can run arbitrary commands on remote targets. To run a command, provide a
command and a list of targets to run the command on.

_\*nix shell command_

```shell
bolt command run 'pwd' --targets servers
```

_PowerShell cmdlet_

```powershell
Invoke-BoltCommand -Command 'Get-Location' -Targets servers
```

> 🔩 **Tip:** If a command contains spaces or special shell characters, wrap
> the command in single quotation marks.

### Read a command from a file

You can also read a command from a file and run it on a list of targets. This
can be helpful if you need to run a script on a target that does not permit file
uploads. To read a command from a file, pass an `@` symbol, followed by the
relative path to the file

_\*nix shell command_

```shell
bolt command run @configure.sh --targets servers
```

_PowerShell cmdlet_

```powershell
Invoke-BoltCommand -Command '@configure.ps1' -Targets servers
```

> **Note:** In PowerShell, always wrap the file name in single quotes.

### Read a command from stdin

> You can also read a command from standard input (stdin). To read a command from stdin,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To read a command from standard input (stdin),
```

### Read targets from stdin

To read a list of targets from stdin, pipe the results from another command to
Bolt and pass a single dash (`-`) to the `targets` option.

_\*nix shell command_

```shell
cat targets.txt | bolt command run 'pwd' --targets -
```

Reading from stdin is not supported by the PowerShell module.

### Specify targets from the previous command

After every execution, Bolt writes information about the result of that run to a
`.rerun.json` file inside the Bolt project directory. You can use the
`.rerun.json` file together with the `rerun` option to specify targets for
future commands. The `rerun` option accepts one of three values:

- `success`: The list of targets the command succeeded on.
- `failure`: The list of targets the command failed on.
- `all`: All of the targets the command ran on.

For example, if you need to run a command that is dependent on the success of
the previous command, you can target the successful targets with the `success`
value.

_\*nix shell command_

```shell
bolt task run restart_server --targets servers --rerun success
```

_PowerShell cmdlet_

```powershell
Invoke-BoltTask -Name restart_server -Targets servers -Rerun success
``` 

> Sometimes, you may want to preserve the results from a previous run so you can
> specify targets with the `rerun` option multiple times. To prevent the
> `.rerun.json` from being overwritten, you can disable saving the rerun file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Disable `.rerun.json`

If you want to preserve the results of a specific Bolt run and run multiple `rerun`
commands against it, you can disable the `.rerun.json` file.
```

```

You can also use the `transport` command-line option:

_\*nix shell command_

```shell
bolt command run 'Get-Location' --targets windows.example.org --transport winrm
```

_PowerShell cmdlet_

```powershell
Invoke-BoltCommand -Command 'Get-Location' -Targets windows.example.org -Transport winrm
```

📖 **Related information**

- [Bolt transports reference](bolt_transports_reference.md)

## Run a script

When you run a script on a remote target, Bolt copies the script from your
workstation to a temporary directory on the target, runs the script, and then
deletes the script from the target.

You can run scripts in any language, as long as the appropriate interpreter is
installed on the remote system. This includes scripting languages such as Bash,
PowerShell, Python, and Ruby.

To run a script, provide the path to the script on the workstation and a list of
targets to run the script on.

_\*nix shell command_

```shell
bolt script run ./scripts/configure.sh --targets servers
```

_PowerShell cmdlet_

```powershell
Invoke-BoltScript -Script ./scripts/configure.ps1 -Targets servers
```

### Pass arguments to a script

> You can also pass arguments to a script. Argument values are passed literally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Argument values are passed literally
```
This is a passive, but I'm not sure how to make it active. "The shell on the remote host does not interpolate script values, Bolt passes the argument values literally." Perhaps we just leave this one in passive voice

and are not interpolated by the shell on the remote host.

_\*nix shell command_

To pass arguments to a script, specify them after the command:

```shell
bolt script run ./scripts/configure.sh --targets servers arg1 arg2
```

_PowerShell cmdlet_

To pass arguments to a script, use the `-Arguments` parameter:

```powershell
Invoke-BoltScript -Script ./scripts/configure.sh -Targets servers -Arguments arg1 arg2
```

> 🔩 **Tip:** If an argument contains spaces or special characters, wrap them
> in single quotes.

### Requirements for running a script

Depending on a target's operating system, there are additional requirements for
running scripts:

> - Scripts run on Unix-like targets must include a shebang line specifying the
>   interpreter. For example, a Bash script should provide the path to the Bash
>   interpreter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- On Unix-like targets, your scripts must include a shebang line specifying the
  interpreter. For example, a Bash script should provide the path to the Bash
  interpreter:
```

# Running commands

## Command syntax

### Shell commands

Bolt shell commands follow a noun-verb convention. To view a full list of
available commands, use the `bolt help` command:

```shell
bolt help
```

📖 **Related information**

- [Bolt command reference](bolt_command_reference.md)

### PowerShell cmdlets

If you're running Bolt from a Windows controller, you can use PowerShell
cmdlets to run Bolt commands. The PowerShell cmdlets are defined in a
PowerShell module that ships with Bolt. Each cmdlet follows verb-noun
conventions.

To view a full list of available PowerShell cmdlets, use the `Get-Command`
cmdlet:

```powershell
Get-Command -Module PuppetBolt
```

## Specifying targets

Many of Bolt's commands are used to connect to remote targets and execute
actions on them. There are several ways that you can specify targets for a
command, from listing them on the command line to reusing targets from the
previous Bolt command.

The most common way to specify targets on the command line is with the
`targets` option. This option accepts a comma-separated list of targets.

> - _\*nix shell command_

Author: I believe indenting in markdown wraps the indented text in a code block. Not sure how that is interpreted by dita, though...

> - _\*nix shell command_

Author: Ya, the bullet points aren't ideal. I do find them preferable over these being unindented, though. Without them it's all reads as a wall of text. :(

> - _\*nix shell command_

Reviewer: Yeah - let's just leave them as is for now. Hopefully this is something we can solve for on the web side soon

by the command you want to run:

```shell
bolt command run 'pwd' --targets servers
```

To view a full list of available commands, use the `bolt help` command:

```shell
bolt help
```

📖 **Related information**

- [Bolt command reference](bolt_command_reference.md)

### PowerShell cmdlets

If you are running Bolt from a Windows controller, you can use PowerShell
cmdlets to run Bolt commands. The PowerShell cmdlets are defined in a
PowerShell module that ships with Bolt. Each cmdlet follows verb-noun
conventions.

For example, to `invoke` a `command` on a target, you can use the
`Invoke-BoltCommand` cmdlet. You would then specify the command to invoke with
the `-Command` named argument:

```powershell
Invoke-BoltCommand -Command 'pwd' -Targets servers
```

To view a full list of available PowerShell cmdlets, use the `Get-Command`
cmdlet:

```powershell
Get-Command -Module PuppetBolt
```

### Specifying targets

Many of Bolt's commands are used to connect to remote targets and execute
actions on them. There are several ways that you can specify targets for a
command, from listing them on the command line to reusing targets from the
previous Bolt command.

> #### Specifying targets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Specifying targets
```
I don't think you need this heading

The most common way to specify targets on the command line is with the
`targets` option. This option accepts a comma-separated list of targets.

> - **Unix shells**

Reviewer: Let's go with the style/formatting we used on the new modules page:

*\*nix shell command*
```shell
bolt project migrate
```

*Powershell cmdlet*
```shell
Update-BoltProject
```

I ended up using italics because bold and H4 look almost identical

by name instead of by a target's Universal Resource Identifier (URI).

- _\*nix shell command_

  ```shell
  bolt command run 'pwd' --targets servers,databases
  ```

- _PowerShell cmdlet_

  ```powershell
  Invoke-BoltCommand -Command 'pwd' -Targets servers,databases
  ```

Bolt supports glob matches for targets. This is helpful when you have several
targets that you want to run a comand on that have similar names. For example,
to run a command on all targets that start with the word `bolt`:

- _\*nix shell command_

  ```shell
  bolt command run 'pwd' --targets 'bolt*'
  ```

- _PowerShell cmdlet_

  ```powershell
  Invoke-BoltCommand -Command 'pwd' -Targets 'bolt*'
  ```

#### Reading targets from a file

You can also read a list of targets from a file. To read a file of targets,
pass an `@` symbol, followed by the relative path to the file, to the
`targets` option.

- _\*nix shell command_

  ```shell
  bolt command run 'pwd' --targets '@targets.txt'
  ```

- _PowerShell cmdlet_

  ```powershell
  Invoke-BoltCommand -Command 'pwd' -Targets '@targets.txt'
  ```

  > **Note:** In PowerShell, always wrap the file name in single quotes.

> #### Reading targets from `stdin`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Reading targets from standard input (stdin)
```

> Targets can also be read from `stdin`. This can be helpful for piping
> results from another command to Bolt. To read a list of targets from `stdin`,
> pipe the results from another command to Bolt and pass a single dash `-` to
> the `targets` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To read a list of targets from stdin, pipe the results from another 
command to Bolt and pass a single dash (`-`) to the `targets` option.
```

- _\*nix shell command_

  ```shell
  cat targets.txt | bolt command run 'pwd' --targets -
  ```

> > **Note:** Reading from `stdin` is not supported by the PowerShell module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reading from `stdin` is not supported by the PowerShell module.
```
I'm trimming down the notes on the page a bit. If we have too many it gets a bit noisy.

#### Specifying targets from the previous command

> After every execution, Bolt writes information about the result of that run to a
> `.rerun.json` file inside the Bolt project directory. That file can then be used
> to specify targets for future commands using the `rerun` option. The `rerun`
> option accepts one of three values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After every execution, Bolt writes information about the result of that run to a
`.rerun.json` file inside the Bolt project directory. You can use the `.rerun.json` 
file together with the `rerun` option to specify targets for future commands. 
The `rerun` option accepts one of three values:
```

- `failure`: The list of targets the command failed on.
- `all`: All of the targets the command ran on.

For example, if you need to run a command that is dependent on the success of
the previous command, you can target the successful targets with the `success`
value.

- _\*nix shell command_

  ```shell
  bolt task run restart_server --targets servers --rerun success
  ```

- _PowerShell cmdlet_

  ```powershell
  Invoke-BoltTask -Name restart_server -Targets servers -Rerun success
  ```

Sometimes, you may want to preserve the results from a previous run so you can
specify targets with the `rerun` option multiple times. To prevent the
`.rerun.json` from being overwritten, you can disable saving the rerun file.

- _\*nix shell command_

  Use the `--no-save-rerun` option to disable saving the rerun file:

  ```shell
  bolt task run restart_server --targets server --rerun success --no-save-rerun
  ```

- _PowerShell cmdlet_

  Use the `-SaveRerun` argument with a value of `$false` to disable saving the
  rerun file:

  ```powershell
  Invoke-BoltTask -Name restart_server -Targets servers -Rerun success -SaveRerun:$false
  ```

### Specifying connection credentials

> To establish connections with remote targets, Bolt will need to provide
> credentials to the target. These credentials can be provided at the command
> line or in an inventory file, and the credentials you provide may vary based
> on the operating system the target is running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To establish connections with remote targets, Bolt needs to provide
credentials to the target. You can provide credentials at the command
line or in an inventory file, and the credentials you provide might vary based
on the operating system the target is running.
```

Whether a target is running a Unix-like operating system or Windows, the
simplest way to specify credentials is to pass the `user` and `password`
to the Bolt command:

- _\*nix shell command_

  ```shell
  bolt command run 'pwd' --targets servers --user bolt --password puppet
  ```

- _PowerShell cmdlet_

  ```powershell
  Invoke-BoltCommand -Command 'pwd' -Targets servers -User bolt -Password puppet
  ```

> If you would prefer to have Bolt securely prompt for a password, so that it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you'd prefer to have Bolt securely prompt for a password, so that it
```

does not appear in a process listing or on the console, use the
`password-prompt` option instead:

- _\*nix shell command_

  ```shell
  bolt command run 'pwd' --targets servers --user bolt --password-prompt
  ```

- _PowerShell cmdlet_

  ```powershell
  Invoke-BoltCommand -Command 'pwd' -Targets servers -User bolt -PasswordPrompt
  ```

### Specifying a transport

> When Bolt establishes a connection with a target, it uses a specific transport
> to do so. By default, Bolt will connect to a target using the `ssh` transport.
> However, you can specify a specific transport that Bolt should use to connect
> to each target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bolt uses a specific transport to establish a connection with a target. 
By default, Bolt connects to targets using the `ssh` transport. You can 
use one of the methods below to set a different transport from the 
command line, or you can configure transports in your inventory file.
```
This gets the inventory file bit out of the way early so you don't have to talk about it later

You can specify the transport used to connect to a specific target by setting
it as the protocol in the target's URI:

- _\*nix shell command_

  ```shell
  bolt command run 'Get-Location' --targets winrm://windows.example.org
  ```

- _PowerShell cmdlet_

  ```powershell
  Invoke-BoltCommand -Command 'Get-Location' -Targets winrm://windows.example.org
  ```

> You can also change the default transport used to connect to targets that do
> not specify a transport in their URI or in their inventory configuration
> using the `transport` command-line option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use the `transport` command-line option:
```

- _\*nix shell command_

  ```shell
  bolt command run 'Get-Location' --targets windows.example.org --transport winrm
  ```

- _PowerShell cmdlet_

  ```powershell
  Invoke-BoltCommand -Command 'Get-Location' -Targets windows.example.org -Transport winrm
  ```

📖 **Related information**

- [Bolt transports reference](bolt_transports_reference.md)

> ## Interacting with remote targets

Reviewer: The first section here on running a command has already been covered further up in the doc, so I don't think it's helpful to repeat it here. Maybe we should pull the "Specifying" sections above out of the syntax section - just make them H2s and their children H3s. That would make it a bit easier for people to navigate to those using the mini-TOC. And then this section can just start with scripts.

Author: Decided to remove the `command run` example at the beginning of the page. It seems cleaner to have all of the action commands grouped together, especially since `command run` has additional information describing how to run commands from files and stdin.

  ```shell
  bolt command run 'pwd' --targets servers
  ```

- _PowerShell cmdlet_

  ```powershell
  Invoke-BoltCommand -Command 'Get-Location' -Targets servers
  ```

> 🔩 **Tip:** If a command contains spaces or special shell characters, wrap
> the command in single quotation marks.

You can also read a command from a file and run it on a list of targets. This
can be helpful if you need to run a script on a target that does not permit file
uploads. To read a command from a file, pass an `@` symbol, followed by the
relative path to the file

- _\*nix shell command_

  ```shell
  bolt command run @configure.sh --targets servers
  ```

- _PowerShell cmdlet_

  ```powershell
  Invoke-BoltCommand -Command '@configure.ps1' -Targets servers
  ```

  > **Note:** In PowerShell, always wrap the file name in single quotes.

You can also read a command from `stdin`. To read a command from `stdin`,
pipe the results from another command to Bolt and pass a single dash `-`
as the command.

- _\*nix shell command_

  ```shell
  cat command.sh | bolt command run - --targets servers
  ```

> **Note:** Reading from `stdin` is not supported by the PowerShell module.

### Running a script

> Bolt can run a script on remote targets. When you run a script on remote
> targets, Bolt copies the script from your controller to a temporary directory on
> the target, runs the script, and then deletes the script from the target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bolt can run a script on remote targets. When you run a script on a remote
target, Bolt copies the script from your controller to a temporary directory on
the target, runs the script, and then deletes the script from the target.
```
